Gatsby drupal (#297)
platformsh/template-builder: templates/gatsby-drupal/files/README.md

    <img src="https://platform.sh/images/deploy/lg-blue.svg" alt="Deploy on Platform.sh" width="180px" />
</a>
</p>

This template builds a two-application project to deploy the Headless CMS pattern using Gatsby as its frontend and Drupal for its backend. The `gatsby-source-drupal` source plugin is used to pull data from Drupal during the `post_deploy` hook into the Gatsby Data Layer and build the frontend site. Gatsby utilizes the Platform.sh Configuration Reader library for Node.js to define the backend data source in its configuration. It is intended for you to use as a starting point and modify for your own needs.

Note that after you have completed the Drupal installation and included a few articles, the project will require a redeploy to build and deploy Gatsby for the first time. See the included README's post-install section for details.

Gatsby is a free and open source framework based on React that helps developers build statically-generated websites and apps, and Drupal is a flexible and extensible PHP-based CMS framework.

> **Note:** This project will require at least a Medium plan.

> ## Services

Reviewer: This should also be converted into a "features" block, no?

# Gatsby Drupal multi-app for Platform.sh

<p align="center">
<a href="https://console.platform.sh/projects/create-project?template=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platformsh/template-builder/master/templates/gatsby-drupal/.platform.template.yaml&utm_content=gatsby-drupal&utm_source=github&utm_medium=button&utm_campaign=deploy_on_platform">
    <img src="https://platform.sh/images/deploy/lg-blue.svg" alt="Deploy on Platform.sh" width="180px" />
</a>
</p>

> This template builds a two application project to deploy the Headless CMS pattern using Gatsby as its frontend and Drupal for its backend. The `gatsby-source-drupal` source plugin is used to pull data from Drupal during the `post_deploy` hook into the Gatsby Data Layer and build the frontend site. Gatsby utilizes the Platform.sh Configuration Reader library for Node.js to define the backend data source in its configuration. It is intended for you to use as a starting point and modify for your own needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This template builds a two-application project to deploy the Headless CMS pattern using Gatsby as its frontend and Drupal for its backend. The `gatsby-source-drupal` source plugin is used to pull data from Drupal during the `post_deploy` hook into the Gatsby Data Layer and build the frontend site. Gatsby utilizes the Platform.sh Configuration Reader library for Node.js to define the backend data source in its configuration. It is intended for you to use as a starting point and modify for your own needs.
```

Reviewer: (Remember to resync with the template.yaml file as well.)

Note that after you have completed the Drupal installation and included a few articles, the project will require a redeploy to build and deploy Gatsby for the first time. See the included README's post-install section for details.

Gatsby is a free and open source framework based on React that helps developers build statically-generated websites and apps, and Drupal is a flexible and extensible PHP-based CMS framework.

> **Note:** This project will require at least a Medium plan.

## Services

* Node.js 12
* PHP 7.3
* MariaDB 10.4

> * Redis 5.0

Reviewer: This needs to be updated as well.

Reviewer: Looks like this didn't get updated?

    - Pattern type: Content
    - Path pattern: `/articles/[node:title]`
    - Content type: Article
    - Label: `pathautho-article`
    - Enabled

  Save the pattern. Now *Articles*, which would typically be available at `/node/<NODE NUMBER>` will have an alias at `/articles/<slug-of-article-title>`, which will be replicated on the final Gatsby site.

4. Add *Articles* by clicking the **Content** tab. Make sure to include all of the required fields in *Articles* (title, summary, body, image, and alt text for the image).

> **Note:** If you plan on enabling Gatsby Live Preview on your development environments, make sure to add at least two Articles now (larger description in Live Preview section below).

5. With the above steps completed, redeploy the environment with `platform redeploy -p <PROJECT ID> -e master`. The environment will redploy, and the Gatsby site will pull data from the backend Drupal API.

### Enabling Gatsby Live Preview (manual configuration)

> **Note:** Live Preview is not enabled by default on *Master* environments, but it can be set up manually on your development environments.

> > **Note:** After Live Preview is enabled, you will be able to edit content within Drupal, which will cause that content to update on Gatsby automatically for changes to its title, summary and body. Make sure to have at least two articles in Drupal before attempting to update an article's image. Gatsby temporarily is not able to locate the article during the update, and the environment will have to be redeployed. As long as there is more than one article present, this problem will not be encountered.  

Reviewer: I'm not sure these need to be "notes."  Certainly not 2 back to back.

0. Branch off of master a new development environment.
1. Within the Drupal admin on that development envirnonment, click on *Gatsby Settings* in **Configuration**/**Web Services** section.
2. Update the following fields and save the new configuration:

>   - Gatsby Preview Server URL: the root url for your environment (`https://<dev-env-name>-<hash>-<projectId>.<region>.platformsh.site/`)

Reviewer: Gross. :-)  Is there no semi-automated way to do that?  Say... a drush command that can set the config value based on the env var?

Author: This is the one that I've been playing with, and would still like to fix. But for now, it doesn't seem that the module will accept the override for it. I figure that we can  merge this far - which is as far as I've ever demo'd anyway, and then I can keep trying  to get it automatic on each branch.

Reviewer: Hrm.  OK for now, I guess, but we should at least be able to just run `drush config set blah blah` or something in the deploy hook, no?  Or is the module just that bad?

Author: That's what I was working with, but the module wasn't picking it up yeah.

Reviewer: Wow, the module is just that bad.  Good to know. :sigh:

* The `.platform.app.yaml`, `.platform/services.yaml`, and `.platform/routes.yaml` files have been added.  These provide Platform.sh-specific configuration and are present in all projects on Platform.sh.  You may customize them as you see fit.
* Additional Platform.sh configuration reader modules for both [PHP](https://github.com/platformsh/config-reader-php) and [Node.js](https://github.com/platformsh/config-reader-nodejs) have been added. They provide convenience wrappers for accessing the Platform.sh environment variables.
* `gatsby-config.js` has been modified to read the Drupal backend url and assign it to the `backend_route` attribute for the `gatsby-source-drupal` plugin using the Node.js Configuration Reader library. Since routes are not available during the build hook, and since we want this value to be generated and unique on each environment, `gatsby build` runs and pulls in content from the Wordpress app during the `post_deploy` hook on the mounted `public` directory. `gatbsby-source-drupal` can have additional parameters set to modify your configuration, so consult the [documentation](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-source-drupal).

> * `gatsby/src/pages/articles.js` and `gatsby/src/templates/article.js` have been included to actually display the Drupal articles within Gatsby using GraphQL, with much appreciated assistance from the tutorials created on [CodeKarate](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLlzlpMzp4eR3EORfm3lwJ_gV5egTa2caF).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `gatsby/src/pages/articles.js` and `gatsby/src/templates/article.js` have been included to actually display the Drupal articles within Gatsby using GraphQL, heavily based on the tutorials available from [CodeKarate](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLlzlpMzp4eR3EORfm3lwJ_gV5egTa2caF).
```

## References

* [Demo video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1RRDzi0TGRI)
* [Gatsby for Drupal 8 CodeKarate tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLlzlpMzp4eR3EORfm3lwJ_gV5egTa2caF)
* [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/)
* [gatsby-source-drupal](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-source-drupal/)

> * [Dedcoupled Drupal by Lullabot](https://www.google.com/search?client=safari&rls=en&q=gatsby+drupal&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8)

Reviewer: This is a Google search link?
